# Unit Testing

## Details
Unit tests are currently setup to use [Pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.3.x/contents.html).

## Setup

Setting up an environment for testing is quite simple.

From a clean Linux image you run the following commands, and you'll be all set.

1. Download the Sarracenia source  
  `git clone https://github.com/MetPX/sarracenia`
2. Checkout the branch you're working on (optional)  
  `git checkout <BranchName>`
3. Update PIP  
  `pip3 install -U pip`
4. Install base requirements for Sarracenia  
  `pip install -r requirements.txt`
5. Install sarracenia Python modules  
  `pip3 install -e .`
6. Install requirements for PyTest  
  `pip install -r tests/requirements.txt`

That's it, you're now ready to run the tests.

## Running

From within the repository root directory, simply run `pytest tests` and you'll see the results. There's a full set of arguments/options that modify the output, outlined [here](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.3.x/reference/reference.html#ini-options-ref).  

As configured, it will output a bit of system information, total tests, followed by a line per file, with dots/letters  to indicate the status of each test in that file.  
Letter meanings: 
(`f`)ailed, (`E`)rror, (`s`)kipped, (`x`)failed, (`X`)passed, (`p`)assed, (`P`)assed with output, (`a`)ll except passed (`p`/`P`), (`w`)arnings, (`A`)ll

Specifying the `-v` option will make it a bit more verbose, listing each tests, and it's pass/skip/fail status.  

Application logs captured during tests can be output with the `-o log_cli=true` argument.

### Reporting
Basic HTML report of tests can be generated by adding `--html=tests/report.html --self-contained-html` to the command-line.

Code coverage can be generated by adding `--cov-config=tests/.coveragerc --cov=sarracenia --cov-report=xml --cov-report=html` to the command-line.

Junit-compatible unit test report can be had with by adding `--junitxml=tests/junit/test-results.xml` to the command-line.

### Visual Studio Code

If you want to run this in VSCode, and have it do all the things nicely, you'll need the following extensions:
- [Python](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python)  
  Provides all the smarts for Python development (IntelliSense, linting, debugging, code formatting, refactoring, unit tests, etc..)  
- [Coverage Gutters](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ryanluker.vscode-coverage-gutters)  
  Provides a way to track code coverage in VSCode
- [Python Environment Manager](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=donjayamanne.python-environment-manager)  
  Not strictly required, but really handy if you're working on a number of Python projects
- [GitLens — Git supercharged](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=eamodio.gitlens)  
  Not strictly required, but *very* strongly recommended as it makes VS Code's git features fully functional

Beyond that, changing a few things in your VS Code configs will make it all work.

In `settings.json`, to get all the reports and coverage when running tests, and allow you to run individual tests even if they have dependencies:
```json
{
    "python.testing.pytestArgs": [
        "tests", "-v", 
        "--cov-config=tests/.coveragerc", "--cov=sarracenia", "--cov-report=xml", "--cov-report=html",
        "--html=tests/report.html", "--self-contained-html",
        "--failed-dependency-action=run", "--missing-dependency-action=run"
    ],
    "python.testing.unittestEnabled": false,
    "python.testing.pytestEnabled": true,
    "coverage-gutters.coverageBaseDir": "tests/coverage",
}
```


In `launch.json` (per [documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/testing#_debug-tests)), to enable full debugging support in your tests:
```json
{
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Python: Debug Tests",
            "type": "python",
            "request": "launch",
            "program": "${file}",
            "purpose": ["debug-test"],
            "console": "integratedTerminal",
            "justMyCode": false, 
            "env": {"PYTEST_ADDOPTS": "--no-cov"}
          }
    ]
}
```

**NOTE:** Don't just squash whatever you have in `settings.json`, or `launch.json`, but use some common sense to merge what's above into your existing files.

## Docker
You can also run the exact same tests from within a Docker container if you want to avoid having to (re)-provision clean installs.

If the code is already present on the host system, you can use the `python` image, and map the code into the container for the tests:  
`docker run --rm -it --name sr3-pytest -v $(pwd):/app -w /app python:3 bash`

Then you run the Setup section above, starting at Step 3.

If the code isn't already on your system, then the following should get you setup:
- Run container  
  `docker run --rm -it --name sr3-pytest ubuntu bash`
- Install dependencies (Ubuntu/Debian)  
  `apt-get update && apt-get install -y git python3 python3-pip`
- Then follow the Setup directions above