
Goals for Next Release August 2017
----------------------------------

Date just indicates start of work.  Release date likely in September.
General target: make it easier for users to deploy their own flows.


Target Use Cases
----------------

*Drop Box* - bi-directional directory synchronization betwen Science and EC using HPFX as a broker. On science an sr_watches to sci2ec exchange, an sr_subscribe to pull data from Science.  An sr_watch posting to ec2sci, and have a sender pushing the data back. 

*Dissemination* - same pattern on science, but a sarra on EC, instead of the subscribe, and a sender to send it further, perhaps via collab.


Specific Small Changes
----------------------

Feedback from a few small attempts to implement user based flows:

 - remove the file names from topic.

 - add *events* to consumers. Sr_subscribe *-events modify*.  will not consume/reflect symlinks, or file deletions. In message processing code, will reject before applying accept/reject.

 - also support events in post... (figure out how to post a file that doesn't exist as a remove?)

 - make multi-switch broker stuff default to *working* without settings (*gateway for*, *cluster*, etc...)

 - *to* should default to the broker hostname, at least. ( like sr_cpost. )

 - SFTP should work using openSSH's credential files (already in paramiko.) just need to suppress the validation in sarra.

 - Sarra should work exactly like subscribe, but just add posting at the end.
   so *directory* should do the right thing.  Currently, it seems to ignore that.
   sarra post_document_root/directory stuff.  (will only find files if you specify a post_documentroot, 
   but then it refuses to post the whole path, because of post_documentroot.)
   sarra - posting file: url's.  standard use case for mortals.
   (get around it by sr_sender using *directory*, but relatively ugly.)

   one approach::

      sr_subscribe could accept post_document_root to set the directory initially...
      post_document_root provides default if no directory specified (so old sarra configs need no mod.)
      or say 

 - review all usage strings, to make them accurate (all are out of date.)

 - bring cache in everywhere, so it works in an understandable manner.
   subscribers also, see C implementation as reference.  have
   python work with C cache files.

 - require configuration to be named?

 - sr_x status --> show all known configs of x ?

 - have sr_post work like cpost, with *sleep* to become a *watch*

 - have heartbeat default print some stats: bytes downloads, msg. downloaded, rates during interval between hearbeats: bytes & messages per second.

 - Add user defined headers '-headers printer=cidulas '

 - headers received and not understood should pass through unmodified (upward compatibility.)

 - sr start --> should look at post/ subdir for confiugurations where sleep > 0, and start those.


 - after talking with michel, talking about init style [ consumer ] [ post ] [ report ] sections.
   another possibility ... what if kept same file, but add a *meta* config:

      in ~/.config/sarra/x.conf

      cat >>x.conf <<EOT
 
      consume  patente.conf

      post  poster.conf

      report report.conf

      EOT

      sr_subscribe start x
   
      looks for patente.conf in consume/ subdir, poster.conf in post/ subdir, report.conf in report/ subdir.
      
      finds x, then each file has broker/exchange/accept/reject etc... for 'consume' or 'post' or 'report'

      hmm.

   dunno.

 - change default 'expiry' to ... something that will auto delete unused queues before they become a problem.
   5 minutes? that way it becomes really obvious... if not explicit expire set, add a log message:
   'WARNING: messages on server will only be queued until expire (%d minutes) when disconnected"
   so that users know. 

 - can we clean up sr output, so there are far fewer lines to read?
   change the unknown variable warning to debug?


 - option... wistful... make debug logging output a bitmask...  (only put certain bits in debug. requires changing logger 
   interface to add 'whereami' to every log message.  travail de moine.)::

       plugins  01
       sender   02
       config   04 
       consume  08
       localio  10
       creds    20
       post     40
       report   80

   so loglevel becomes (  debug:plugins, warn:sender,  ??) dunno. not baked.




Thneed
------

This is for discussion, not execution...

So Michel has been talking for a while about coalescing everything into one component.
so we can have a new config file format that is init-like with sections. The
different common requirements have the same names in the different sections.
We have one binary... sarracenia?  and it´s config looks like::
  
  [ list ]
  
  do consume_queue|poll_server|scan_path 

  """
    do arguments? self for the options, return value?
       path name, and stat=None, or msg=None,  (None meaning not available.)
       or just a partial message is always constructed?
  """
  broker amqps:...
  subtopic  h.b.c.#
  
  sum 
  parts 
  
  """
    I don't know where these go, do they get used here, or only in filter?

  """
  etc...
  
  [ filter ]
  
  reject .*grib.*
  accept .*

  cache on

  """
    applies filtering based on path name (perhaps extend to other attributes.)

  """
  do == on_message
  
  [ process ]
  
  do download|send|off
  
  on_part, on_file hmm...

  [ post ]
  
  do == on_post
  broker
  
  
  [ report ]
  do == on_post
  broker
  topic_prefix
  
  
+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
|                |                                                     |
| old component  | Corresponding configuration.                        |
|                |                                                     |
+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
|                |                                                     |
| sr_subscribe   | [list]                                              |
|                | do consume_queue                                    |  
|                | broker ...                                          |
|                |                                                     |
|                | [process]                                           |
|                | method download                                     |
|                |                                                     |
+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
|                |                                                     |
| sr_winnow      | [list]                                              |
| sr_shovel      | do consume_queue                                    |
| sr_sarra       | broker xxx                                          |
| sr_sender      | exchange fsadggds                                   |
|                |                                                     |
|                | [filter]                                            |
|                | accept <pattern> DESTFN=xyz                         |
|                | cache on                                            |
|                |                                                     |
|                | [process]                                           |
|                |   on_message runs here?                             |
|                |                                                     |
|                |   do     off                                        |
|                |                                                     |
|                |   (download for sr_sarra) -> do_download            |
|                |   (sender for sr_sender) -> do_sender               |
|                |   (forward for download&send?)                      |
|                |                                                     |
|                |   on_part, on_file                                  |
|                |                                                     |
|                | [post]                                              |
|                | broker yyy                                          |
|                | exchange fuddygds                                   |
|                |                                                     |
|                | [report]                                            |
|                | broker yyy                                          |
|                | exchange fuddygds                                   |
|                |                                                     |
+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------+
|                |                                                     |
| sr_watch       | [list]                                              |
|                | do scan_path                                        |
|                | sleep    5                                          |
|                |                                                     |
|                |                                                     |
+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------+

unresolved questions:
   - what is the API of the *do* plugins?
     for list, every call to *do* returns a path name & optional statbuf and or message? (None if NA)
   - syntax changes considerably, likely need a converter, that ingests old config and *updates* to new.
   - one very long man page at the end of this!
   - how does command line usage reflect change of *section*, use each *section* name as a keyword?
   - sr_subscribe becomes:  sarracenia -get -method subscribe -process -method download 
   - just place these files in ~/.config/sarra/<config> (not component location.)
   - because the syntax to access options will change. All of the plugins also need to be updated.
     (API change.) + and make the old work with the new during transition.

Advantages:
   - single component for whole application (except start|stop?) 
   - could all be packed into one big script (like dd_subscribe was.)
   - less concepts, less repetition, less code. just one algorithm with settings.

If we undertake such a change, one thing is clear:  Need something that read the old files and spits out the new ones (mass converter.)


ConfigParser
------------

I imagine one goal of changing config file format is to reduce less code by using python's configparser modules.
But it builds a dict, rather than a list, which means multiple accept/reject don't work, and throw an error.

One can try to get around it like so::
  
    
    filter= 
      reject .*GIF.*
      reject .*GRIB.*
      accept .*

Placing all the reject/accept clauses in a single value, but then the question is what to do
with *include*.  One can make [include] a separate section? (what about nested?) need to get ordering
right.  so would put *filter9* in the main file, and then *filter0* in an include file, and
then the parsing logic would use them in order?  

What if *include* sets something other than accept/reject... hmm.. 
so each include file has [list] ... [filter] ... [post] ... [report] and then are included to 
each section...



Thneed II
---------

We take all of the above stuff, and we forget about trying to adopt ConfigParser.
we just add to the existing module [list], [filter], [process], [post] and just use
that as a textual substition in config settings. ie.  [list]  broker -> self.list_broker
so you just need a few aliases, and everything still works, but it is clearer in the 
the config files.

probably a lot less effort to do this, than the above.


Another Version
---------------


do consume_q,filter,download,report

[consume_q]
broker
exchange
....

